# Precourse: Bacefook

Previously you have recreated mockups with HTML and CSS, and used JavaScript to solve algorithm-style problems.

In this assignment you will combine all the skills you have learned to create a social media app called **Bacefook**. 👨‍📚

> Note: Do not use Node for this! You will learn more about Node in the next assignment, which will explain why using it won't work in Bacefook

## Objectives

* Use query selectors to obtain references to DOM elements
* Register callbacks as event handlers
* Save 💾 to and load items from local storage
* Create elements, set their attributes, append them to the DOM
* Use moment.js to format timestamps ⏱
* Use window.onload() to run code after initialization

## Background

Some code has already been written for you:

* `data_generator.js` - simulates creation of post data
* `app.js` - displays the data in your feed

You will be writing most of your code in the `app.js` file. The `data_generator.js` file has some code that we have set up for you. It is organised like this:

There are two global variables (on `window`)-- `bacefook` and `friends`. (Because these are global, they are accessible in the `app.js` file.)
* `friends` is just an array of strings representing the friends you have on your Bacefook. You may not end up using this, but it's there if you want to use it!
* The `bacefook` variable is an object with two properties: `friends` and `newsfeed`. 
    * `newsfeed` is an array of objects with each object representing a Bacefook post. Each post object has the following: `friend`, `text`, `feeling`, `link`, `image` and `timestamp`.
    * `friends` 👭👫 is an object that contains all of your friends as the keys and their values as the various posts attributed to them.

When a post object is created, it gets added to both your `bacefook.newsfeed` array and to the respective friend array. So a post object 'written' by Kani will get added both to your Bacefook and also to the array found at `bacefook.friends.kani`

The `scheduler` function in `data_generator.js` also kicks off a periodic process that generates more random posts to add to the newsfeed while the page is open.

## Basic Requirements

>**Note** 🐱 This repository does not have mia tests, so your pull requests will be merged manually 🐱

**Please do not use jQuery for this exercise.**

Begin by opening `index.html` in Chrome to verify that you can see 👀 the posts.

- [ ] Read about these methods. You may not use all of them, but knowing about these will be helpful:

    - [myButton.addEventListener(“click”, myFunction);](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/EventTarget/addEventListener)

    - [document.createElement(“div”)](
    https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/createElement)

    - [document.getElementById(id)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/getElementById)

    - [document.querySelector(selector)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/querySelector)

    - [parent.append(child);](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ParentNode/append)

    - [myDiv.innerHTML = “Hi!”](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/innerHTML)

    - [setTimeout(functionName, number of milliseconds to wait before calling it)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WindowOrWorkerGlobalScope/setTimeout)

    - [setInterval(functionName, number of milliseconds to wait between calling it)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WindowOrWorkerGlobalScope/setInterval)

- [ ] Read through the code in `app.js` and `data_generator.js`. 
    - [ ] Identify what the code in these files is doing.
    - [ ] Research anything you don't recognise!
- [ ] Show the new Bacefook posts that are being generated by `scheduler`. You can choose to:
    - [ ] Display them automatically as they are created
    - [ ] OR add a button that displays the new posts
- [ ] Display the timestamps of when the posts were created
- [ ] Display what the friend is 'feeling' for a post
- [ ] Add images to the posts that are generated and display them. 
    - There is an empty array for the variable `images` as well as an empty folder for images. 
- [ ] Style the page to improve its appearance by adding a `css` file. 
    - Please do not include styles in-line HTML.
- [ ] Include this `moment.js` [code](https://momentjs.com/) as a script.
    - Ignore the install instructions.
    - Use the 'download' instructions.
    - Locales aren't important, just download the moment.js.
- [ ] Use `moment.js` to show when the posts were created in a human friendly way (e.g. "posted 5 minutes ago")
- [ ] Add an input box so the user can add their own posts.
    - User does not need to be able to upload their own images.
- [ ] At the top of `app.js`, there is a check to see if there is a username stored in `localStorage`. Have the username display somewhere on the page.


## Advanced Requirements

- [ ] Make this look as close as possible to the real Facebook newsfeed.
